Castor Fielding is the chief engineer of Evergreen’s Colonial Engineering Corps (CEC). A first-generation Evergreen-Hercynian, Fielding is in his middle sixties, with a crown of white hair and the face of someone who has spent many decades working outdoors. He is a kind man, though gruff and matter-of-fact, who approaches every situation as a problem with possible solutions. He is never without hope, as he thinks himself quite capable of devising solutions or workarounds to anything – and there is some truth to that. Well-versed in the practice of mechanical, electrical, and civic engineering, Castor has moved into a managerial role in his middle age. Despite that, he is not averse to rolling up his sleeves and putting in an honest day’s work – like all first-generation Evergreen-Hercynians, he’s used to doing his own bit of hauling, digging, and chopping.

Fielding likes practical things, interesting design, elegant solutions, and honest work. That said, he’s a first-generation colonist, and expects to enjoy somewhat … relaxed regulations in terms of his conduct. He’ll share a drink with his engineers and laborers while they’re out in the field, nap on warm equipment when the weather is too rough to do good work, turn a blind eye to prohibitions against working with the people of the Gray Towns, and generally play fast and loose with regulations once his own requirements – far stricter, in his mind – have been met.

He is fond of smoking real tobacco cigarettes (not the null-metastatic versions most people enjoy) and grows a crop of tobacco out by Merricktown. Though widely known, this operation is off the books, minded by subalterns and foremen he pays under the table.

The CEC is staffed by a few dozen engineers and a hundred specialized builders. On top of that, it has access to the colony’s labor force. The CEC manages all major projects across Evergreen and any special projects that crop up. It is currently tasked with devising appropriate static defenses, defilade, and concealment for the colony. The CEC also plays a part in overseeing printing operations in Evergreen, and often consults on colonists’ designs, orders, and assemblies.
