## Biography

Known for his work as an actor, writer, and producer, Vik started his acting life on the small stage, weaving in and out of Hollywood circles in his teens and twenties and fighting for bit parts for years before finally scoring the breaks that would propel him to stardom as an action powerhouse and household name. Though he’s gathered cult followings for his work in several smaller film franchises and renown for his voice acting, Vik’s primary vehicle of the past twenty five years has been the critically panned but commercially record-breaking _Quick and Quarrelous_ series. Starting with the titular film, _The Quick and The Quarrelous_, the multi-media franchise centered around a ragtag group of civilian pilots and junker mechanics who utilize stolen and modded lancers to take part in everything from illegal racing to multi-planetary heists to government-sanctioned black ops missions. Vik played Donovan Turley, the iron-willed and massively built leader of the unnamed ‘crew’ who is ever willing to go to extremes for the people he sees as his family.

By the 18th installment of the franchise, _18Quick18Quarrelous18_ (sometimes referred to by its subtitle, “Welcome to the PalinDome”), Vik’s notoriously difficult personality had driven most of the original actors away from the films. After two subsequent straight-to-streaming releases written,  directed, and funded by Petrol himself received all time low viewing numbers, it was widely believed that all potential storylines had been exhausted and that the media giant had finally come to an end. Vik’s future looked bleak. As if to rub salt in the wound, inexplicably popular periodical _Men's Journal_ ran “Petrol: Have The Reserves Run Dry?”, an article that made a sendup of Vik’s age (55) in relation to his action hero roles, questioned his true talents, and pointed to the gap between his character’s firmly held beliefs of family and dedication and his own troubled personality. In an act of desperate overcompensation, Vik enlisted to prove that he and his fictional counterpart weren’t as different as his critics believed.

## Trivia

* Coming Soon
