**Anthrochauvinism** - The dominant ideology of Union’s Second Committee. The central tenet of anthrochauvinism is that humanity, as the only known sapient life in the galaxy, when faced with the overwhelming hostility of space has a moral imperative to expand, colonize, and exploit terrestrial worlds. If survival of the species comes at the cost of some non-human life or dissident populations, then such a loss is necessary and morally correct. As a term, “anthrochauvinism” describes both specific political ideologies and a far more general culture of anthropocentric political and cultural action.

**Cascade** - A process through which shackled NHPs slowly “think” themselves out of their constrained states. This traumatic process happens naturally over time but can be avoided by periodic resets, called “cycling”.

**Cosmopolitans** - Cosmopolitans are those who live between, in transit to, or beyond the frontier of the Core worlds. Their ships and flotillas are their homes, now or since birth. They may have left their homeworlds far behind in time and space, or they may have been born on a ship, with the void and stars the only homeland they've ever known. The life of a Cosmopolitan is split between subjective time and realtime: time as they experience it, and time as it passes in the galaxy at large – this a consequence of conventional, near-c interstellar travel.

**Cradle** - Union's name for both Earth and the Sol system, used interchangeably.

**Diasporans** - Diasporan humans and their worlds are those that exist on the edge of Union's territory. For Diasporan worlds, Union's utopia is an ongoing project – a future to be won through political and cultural struggle. Just as geologically varied as the capital worlds of the Galactic Core, the many thousands of Diasporan worlds represent a second frontier: one not raw and unexploited, but steeped in their own histories, their own institutions, and their own ignorance or knowledge of Union.

**General Massive Systems** - GMS is one of the oldest fabricators in the galaxy, first getting its start in the early days of the colonization rush. The manufacturer hails from Cradle, the home of Union – and humanity – and thus its designs reflect the sensibilities of the first pioneers to seek the stars. Today, GMS products are available anywhere there is access to the omninet. These products, whether consumer, specialty, or military, are widely viewed as the galactic minimum of quality: not particularly luxurious, but unsurpassed in nononsense design, reliability, and ease of use. Where GMS is available, anything less is unacceptable.

**Harrison Armory** - HA enjoys a galaxy-wide reputation for the quality of its weapons and defensive systems. The corpro-state previously specialized in ordnance and other armaments, making it reliant on competitors’ frames as mounts for its deluxe equipment; however, since the overthrow of Union’s Second Committee, Harrison Armory has broadened its product line to include an extensive range of peerless frontline frames. On the wave of this new success, the Armory has transformed into a burgeoning, imperial corprostate, a mighty galactic power that directly administers a large number of Core worlds, orbitals, and colonial prospects – this is the Purview; all lands under the Armory’s command.

**Hercynia** - Planetoid that the LC-CRT Recoup Blue has been sub-contracted to investigate.

**HORUS** - An oddity among the various pan-galactic corpro-states, outfitters, and manufacturers. Operating in a gray legal state between harmless omninet communes, open-source fabrication collaboratives, black-market printers, and deeper, more esoteric collectives, HORUS is counted among the Big Four not due to its influence on galactic politics, but because of its ubiquitous coverage: one can be certain that wherever there is omninet, HORUS is either there or soon to follow. Rumors abound as to the manufacturer’s nature – some say it’s the dream of an unshackled NHP or a hacker collective dedicated to open-source manufacturing (at its most mundane levels); others insist that it’s the proving ground for one of the corpro-states’ R&D departments, or the realspace projection of an alien entity’s ongoing wish.

**IPS-Northstar** - IPS-N was created from the merger of two civilian interstellar freight and transportation companies, Interplanetary Shipping and Northstar. The resulting firm, IPS-N is a titanic entity – one of the first corpro-states – with a virtual monopoly over interplanetary and interstellar shipping. Other firms exist, but their gross fleet strength is but a shadow of IPS-N’s fleets of tankers, haulers, freighters, and intergate/interstellar liners. Wherever goods and raw materials need to be moved, you can bet a crew in IPS-N uniforms will be there.

**Metropolitans** - The people of Core worlds, called Metropolitans, flow through blinkspace in a constant stream, stepping from one world to the next, trading in culture, art, science, faith, theory, goods, sport, and friendship. Metropolitan humanity expresses itself with an infinite diversity of faiths, cultural practices, genders, and social structures. On Core worlds, people create art, shape the land, build glittering cities, and construct great works of engineering. They write, they cook, they drink, they play sports, they journey, and they wander. This arm of the galaxy is populated by a roiling, surging mass of people – often contradictory, often myopic, but ever learning, ever growing. 

**Non-Human Person (NHP)** - Officially, the only NHPs recognized by Union are the sentient, paracausal beings that emerged during the Deimos Event, including the original entities and those developed later. These incorporeal, artificial intelligence–adjacent entities are confined to digital containment systems called caskets that allow them to interface with human technological systems.

**SecComm** - Short for "Second Committee", this was Union’s previous government (2880–4591u). An overtly imperial regime, SecComm was animated by an anthrochauvinist ideology of human manifest destiny among the stars. It collapsed in 4591u following around 30 years of agitation, uprisings, and, eventually, open civil war across Cradle.

**Smith-Shimano Corpro** - SSC is the second-oldest corporation in the galaxy, preceded only by GMS. Founded by Cartwright Smith and Shimano Hideyoshi, SSC’s emphasis on private stellar and interstellar travel, the fantastic wealth of its founders, and favorable contracts within Union’s First Committeehelped it quickly become an early leader in the race to develop sublight, downwell, and EVA vehicles. Over time, the corporation diversified to specialize in bio-bespoke, long-range scout suits – personalized hard suits, for those with the manna to afford them.

**Subaltern** - Robotic drones used for a variety of industrial, logistical, and military tasks, subalterns are a common sight across many worlds in and around Union space. Unlike other drones, subalterns tend to be humanoform in design, which allows them to interface with vehicles and tools already adapted for human use. As a result, while they may not have the advanced capabilities of more specialized, singlepurpose drone models, they are extremely flexible platforms. Subalterns can be directed by either basic comp/con systems or NHPs, the latter of which sometimes use subalterns as physical avatars for moving around the world and interacting with people directly. Subaltern designs vary tremendously in terms of aesthetic and functional considerations. They range from near-human models with synthetic skin, musculature, and faces that lift them just out of the uncanny valley through to military models stripped of nonessential cosmetics in favor of robust superstructures, armor plating, hardened electronics, and aggressive postures.

**Third Committee** - Union’s current ruling government (4600u–present). The Third Committee began as a revolutionary government in the wake of the civil war that gripped Cradle from 4560u to 4591u. Following a long period of consolidation, Union is largely united under the hegemony of the Third Committee. The Third Committee’s ideology is best defined by its revival of the First Committee’s three Utopian Pillars. The most enduring project of the Third Committee is the reconciliation of a galaxy fractured by the fall of its predecessor.

**The Utopian Pillars** -  There are few beliefs common to all humans under Union’s purview – even among the Metropolitans of the Galactic Core – but there are three truths that Union’s agents and the Metropolitans share: the Utopian Pillars. Formally re-adopted after the overthrow of SecComm, the Pillars are fundamental, owed to all, and guaranteed to the best of Union’s ability:
I. “All shall have their material needs fulfilled.”
II. “No walls shall stand between worlds.”
III. “No human shall be held in bondage through force, labor, or debt."
